---
title: The importance of setting purposes for doing things
summary: A purpose is a secret sauce that keeps your motivation or excitement in doing things. I share my experience to let you know the importance of purposes.
date: 12 Feb 2020
category: life
tag: Motivation
keywords: self-development, purposes, life, experience
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4meREjvi9_gB2eMNBY7vs94HHgJZxzLK7xOkcoYkd4HCCn6T0qROXtplyJhWuiGbGWWEoajiHkU3AXspjTogm1FdYB5W61Hsbm7pPYCHFX1msd9nWNdOkD4LIDAism5FGqKmK6kro3KNjYFat988Wxy4NCkNy8zEv8XhFWc4KoCP-KiZh3GZ7WHXf4yMHHE7dV?width=1277&height=820&cropmode=none
time: 1
---

As a human nature, we tend to find reasons for what we've done or are doing. Without purposes, we might feel unhappiness and regret on what we did at some point of life. For me, nothing exists without a purpose. In this post, I share my learning how to code journey to enhance the importance of setting a purpose.

---

## 1. Why did I start learning how to code?
Three years ago - before coming to Australia, I was a business student who took all the business classes and read all the business books. After a year of living in Australia, the dream of becoming business analyst who analyses and turns business requirements into profits was still staying in my mind.

However, things changed when I took the first coding class at my university. I started realising that building a software is interesting because it allows me to practice my creativity and also enhances my problem-solving skills that I need to become an entrepreneur. At that moment, I switched my degree to the Computer Science degree and started learning more abut business via books. Although this is the tough decision that I hadn't never made - because this requires to spend lots of time on learning both things at the samem time, I eventually made it due to my craving for knowledge and belief that I would achieve at least something in the future.

## 2. It's better to set purposes or goals
At the beginning, coding was tough for me due to lots of technical and unkown terms. However,  I used my initial goals to keep my motivation and excitement. Not only that, I set lots of goals including daily, weekly and monthly ones. By achieving those goals step by step, I observed my improvments after a short amount of time. Of course, I continue on using this technique to improve myself on different aspects.

## 3. What did I do when feeling bored?
Purposes keep our motivation in doing things but the boredment makes us forget those purposes. After a few months of learning how to code, I started getting bored with what I learned from school because it was less practical than what I had thought. Then, I started realising that I lost my initial purposes and needed to get them back for whatever reasons. To do that, I browsed tasks online or even created tasks myself for practicing what I've learned and continously improving my knowledge. This kept my motivation and somehow got me back to the loop of achieving purposes because I explored and exploited many new things along the journey.

## 4. Action, action and action
Purposes are not only about planning but also about how you execute them. You might not able to see the improvements without doing things to achieve your purposes. Achieving purposes or goals is tough but it isn't important if you put in the effort. Therefore, one of the important parts that is correlated to purposes is your action.