---
title: Tips for Online Learning
summary: Self-learning is one of the most important skills during this pandemic period. Thus, I write this post to give some suggestions on preparing that skill.
date: 22 Mar 2020
category: life
tag: Learning Tips
keywords: online learning, student life, tips, planning, self-development
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4m4elJIRfCoYshCjV9AczS92kWGy2uChoBqxlUesR8YL55Ux5wndhDcJPY8PFMhNxZmcXzu0oIPfINA2UMoufcO8KAztiUMK2v_sa7rDRUz8gkgx_p-PZk9AoTYv__kCO4x0Him6Ce4WTXGEGiAxeLuqjb8FPIN4KY1iXstsRPCtNqFt1inq4xdoQd2BcvNSRt?width=640&height=427&cropmode=none
time: 1
---

Due to the negative effect of COVID-19, most of the schools start transforming their face-to-face teaching methods to online classes. Thus, online learning becomes popular in most of the countries. In this post, I'm going to share a few tips that help your online studying more effective.

----

## 1. It's better to set a plan
Planning is extremely important when doing something, not excepting online learning. Therefore, you should set a plan in order to improve the effectiveness of your learning. Online learning gives you lots of freedom in arranging your time instead of following stick timeframes like face-to-face learning. Thus, without a clear planning, you might feel everything is out of your control, which leads to stress and ineffective learning.

How to do that? It depnds on your learning styles. Here, I'm studying Computer Science degree, and hence, I spend most of my time sitting in front of the computer for learning. Therefore, you may need to adjust tips below:

1. For each week, I tend to specify a number of hours that I need to spend on watching online lecturers or tutorials.
2. I summarise the content for each subject based on published notes before watching those videos so that I can have a clear image of what should be noted.
3. I tend to set timeframes and to-be-done tasks for my self-learning sessions.
4. I follow my plan and execute it.

## 2. Stay focused
Online learning requires lots of responsibility from the learner. However, you might be more disturbed by things like social media and phone when staying alone for studying. To stay focused, I also have few personal tips as follows:

1. I turn off the notification sound and turn on the "Do not disturb" mode in my devices.
2. I restrict myself not to access social media sites on either web browser or mobile devices during the learning session.
3. If I have unrelated things that I really want to do during the session, I tend to note them down on the paper and leave it until the session has been finished.

## 3. Stop being procrastinated
Being procrastinated is another popular characteristic that you might face when studying alone. This causes the ineffectiveness in online learning. Here is the way that I tend to use for avoiding procrastination. If something happens in the date that I planned, I still need to complete partly my plan so that it's in progress. This reminds me to get done the rest on another day. By doing this, I can easily control my workloads and boost the effectiveness for my learning process.

## 4. Be proactive
To learn more, you will need to be proactive. This is a simple rule that can be used for boosting the effectiveness of your learning. I tend to ask questions as much as possible or even help other students to address their questions. This makes me feel I'm a part of community and not alone when I need help. Like playing games or doing other activities, communicating about a particular topic might embrace your motivation or excitement to continue on what you're doing.