---
title: Improve your problem-solving skills
summary: Problem-solving is an important skill in the digital life. I share my knowledge to improve this skill based on my experience.
date: 21 July 2019
category: life
tag: Soft Skills
keywords: problem-solving, soft skills, life, experience
cover: 21072019_solving.png
---

Problem-solving is an important skill in the digital life where the Internet, the concept of machine learning and artificial intelligence went viral. In the futre, we encourage other people to be more creative with the use of technologies. One of the important steps for improving the creativity is learning how to solve problems. In this post, I share my experience in problem-solving skills.

> When I was in high school, my maths teachers gave me a lot of exercises and told me to try to solve it in a short amount of time. When I was a freshman at the university, I had to solve many business cases and coding challenges within 13 weeks. And now when I’m a sophomore and working in the tech industry, I’m not only solving my daily challenges but also helping other people to solve their problems.

---

## 1. Understand the problem
Understanding a problem is the first step that you need to do before trying to solve it. To do that, you need to make questions around it and read materials to fidn the answer for those questions. The more you read, the more knowledge you find to clearly understand the problem. In some cases, you might to connect related to points to find out the root of a problem. This requires you to read lots of materials, experience lots of experiments or practice various things. However, a problem that you're trying to solve might require different knowledge domains. Thus, it is important to communicate with experts in each specific domain to gather information and have better understanding about it.

## 2. Break it down
After understanding the problem, you need to break the problem down to the small ones. Don’t try to solve the problem, go to achieve every small piece of it. By doing this, you can reduce the complexity of a problem, and hence, increase the possibility of solving it. I tend to look for a big image but solve small ones to achieve it. 

> We have a vision and we conquer every little step to meet our vision. That is how we solve a 1000-pieces puzzle.

## 3. Experiment with Q&A techniques

Your curiosity contributes the most when you're trying to solve a particular problem. There is no problem that can be solved without a question. Thus, it's important to ask questions and find out the answer for those. In today's digital life, you can easily find out the information that you need via Google or other search engines. However, filtering or mixing those information to address problems requires to have a solid experience. To build up your experience, you will need to practice or experiment different things, suffer failures and learn from those. Don't be afraid of failures because they create opportunities for improving yourself.