---
title: Effective ways of learning
summary: Craving for knowledge is one of the most improtant parts of self-development. This requires the effective learning method. In this post, I share effective ways of learning via my experience.
date: 27 Jan 2020
category: life
tag: Learning Tips
keywords: learning methods, effective learning, tips, experience, self-development
cover: 27012020_learning.jpg
---

Craving for knowledge is one of the most important parts of self-development. This requires the effective learning method. In this post, I share effective ways of learning via my experience.

---

## 1. Be proactive
Reflecting what you've learned and planning what you're going to learn is the effective way of improving your knowledge. This evokes your curiousity in particular things and encourage to self-ask many related questions. When I want to learn something new, I often search for the information about that on the Internet or actively ask questions to people who I think they can help me. Don't be afraid of asking! If you don't ask for help, people don't know you are in need of help.

Being proactive when you want to learn is extremely important because it empowers other characteristics of building other learning habits. Note that you are the one who builds the door to bring opportunities to yourself. Therefore, let's be proactive for your knowledge.

## 2. Connect the dot points
The more you work or study, the more you see the importance of what you've learned in the past. Without the foundation of knowledge, it's difficult to achieve the higher one. That's also known as "connecting the dot points". Immagine that learning is like a life journey, you might not be able to get to the point that you want without experiencing its previous point. Sometimes, you might feel things that you're learning is not quite important but it will stand out when you need it. Furthermore, by connecting what you've learned and are learning, you can explore the new knowledge that blows your mind. This is the effective way of learning because the purpose of learning is to explore a new thing and exploit your existing knowledge. For example,  when building a scalable website, I searched for the meaning of scalability in the context of technology, used my existing knowledge to understand how to design a scalable system, reflected and applied what I'd learned. 

## 3. Failure is learning opportunity
Being afraid of failure when learning is not the effective learning method because there is no gain without pain. Sometimes, you will need to step out of your comfort zone to explore new things that improve your knoweledge. When I learn the new knowledge, I set a goal and experiment all possibilities to obtain all possible results. Then, I continously improve good results and learn from the bad ones. Bad results is failures but it will be fine if you reflect them for the future improvement. The more failures you have, the more opportunities you gain during the learning journey.

## 4. Share it!
Another effective way of learning is sharing your knowledge. That's why we have lots of existing Q&A services on the Internet like Google, StackOverflow, Quora and others. These are tools that help us share knoweldge and obtain knowledge from others. By sharing knowledge, you're reflecting on what've learned, improving your communication skills and learning more from others. Not only sharing it online, but you can also do that in your communities or conferences that you attend. Remember the last time you addressed your problem, did you google yourself or ask anyone for help? Without the sharing characteristic, you may not receive the information that you needed.

## 5. Break down the puzzle
The complex puzzle might make us feel bored when solving it. Why don't we break it down into smaller ones? That's called "divide and conquer" learning method. When I face the complex question, I tend to break it down into smaller questions. By finding the answer for those questions, I "connect the dot points" to address the big one. This helps me find out the root of knowledge and explore new things during the learning journeys.