---
title: The books that shaped my 2019
summary: Reading books improves your knowledge to have the better life. I share five books that changed my mindset in 2019.
date: 04 Jan 2020
category: books
tag: Business and Skills
keywords: books, business, self-development, skills, review, mindset, communication
cover: 04012020_books.jpg
time: 3
---

Reading books improves your knowledge to have the better life. It's not only about the number of books you've read, but also the values that you've taken from those. In this post, I share five books that shaped my 2019.

---

## 1. Alibaba's world - Porter Erisman
This book mainly focuses on the history of Alibaba from 2000 to 2008. It shows how Jack Ma, an English teacher with no technical background, started Alibaba - the world’s largest e-commerce company. From his journey, you can imagine difficulties of starting a company and the feelings when seeing the company's growth. By reading this book, you can learn how Jack Ma motivates and leads his team to build a product that could change the world; how he makes decisions that address internal and external company’s problems; how he behaves and communicates with his team when facing mistakes that leads to the fall of the company; and his dreams.

Personally, I'm a big fan of this type of book in which I learn more about business lessons from the history of the company. I enjoyed reading the chapter that describes how Alibaba competed with other companies in the local market because it evokes many business lessons. Furthermore, I liked the way Jack Ma treats Alibaba’s people during the crisis period which shows the reason why we should practice our emotional intelligence as human being.

## 2. The storyteller's secret - Carmine Gallo
Have you ever considered why and how TED speakers present their own topics really well? If yes, this book is for you. Everything has its own secret. This book covers all the secrets of how TED speakers and leaders perform their passion on the stage. By reading this book, you find out the way to improve your communication skills in different roles. One of the most valuable lessons I learned from this book is “Confusion makes education nearly impossible”. This motivitates me to improve my way of explanning things to other people with different backgrounds. The author separates the content of the book into 4 main sections discussing on various topics such as education, simplification, motivation, and inspiration. Each section starts with the story of a particular storyteller, the storyteller’s tools and the storyteller’s secret.  When reading this book, I enjoyed the backstory of each storyteller which shows me the journey of becoming an inspirational storyteller. In addition, each journey is not only about the communication skill but also life lessons. For me, the important secret of being an inspirational storyteller/leader is not knowing all the secrets in this book, but the time you spend to practice these secrets.

## 3. The right kind of crazy - Adam Steltzner with William Patrick
This book was written by a mechanical engineer in Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) who had been curious about space in his childhood. The book shows the backstory of Adam on how he became an engineer in JPL – a federally funded research and development center and NASA field center in California, US. Moreover, it shows his working journey in JPL which focuses on how the space products are built, developed and tested. Furthermore, the book shows how important team work and innovation are for building extremely expensive products which brings people to the moon. One of the most valuable lessons I learned in this book is that a leader needs to create an environment that encourages people’s curiosity and lets ideas win rather than people. To do that, we need to practice empathy which empowers the team work spirit and brings people together. The book sometimes has lots of technical terms which might be a bit boring for those who are not in the engineering field. However, if you want to learn more about teamwork, leadership, and innovation in the engineering environment, this book is for you.

## 4. Mindsharing - Lior Zoref
This book shows how crowdsourcing can address different types of problems around the world. It's important to build your network and create values for it. This is because your network can help you address your issues such as research, jobs, curiosity, life, or others. However, things need to be put in the right place - e.g. you might not get the statisfied answer for your technical question when asking non-technical people in your network. One important metric to evaluate your network is a number of people and values that your network exchanges. Crowsourcing is a great technique in most of cases but requires efforts of practicing. For example, the crowd will help you to reach our dream and improve your curiosity and creativity if you bring values to it.

## 5. Swinning with sharks - Joris Luyendijk
This book shows the journey of the author into the world of the bankers which contains many lessons about the back office of the financial world. Apart from front-door people who we normally meet when coming to banks, there are many different roles in the back office of the banking environment with different working lifestyles that we might not know in details. Along with the journey, the author describes the empathy, team work and communication between different banking departments. Furthermore, there are lots of backstories about talents in either the back office or the front one. The more I read, the more I understand the reason why people working in the front office need to show how luxurious they are. This book also answers your question "Is it actually good when working in the banking firm and making lots of money?".
