---
title: Habits of being a programmer
summary: It's not hard to become a programmer but it requires some good habits on the journey. In this post, I share my habits for becoming a good programmer.
date: 03 Mar 2019
category: technology
tag: Habits
keywords: technology, habits, programmer, coder, coding, programming
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4meV8eY0ihKNjbpG292XYW2uGymAwIkkRdkPHru8s0auHrqCuw8UC_eRawxgxwc8lZCxx1sPA0kfA_PMHvc1Ycqj3Y_oG7dI7ESyBhFg0vq5Y_LV9y7_MPNGbIoTL4wCPtW9vXVwRS1r9MLd9u56ShiwkaDq_M3lR7rsHuTHyA5wDMyZTUYeVe59CFTKpTKc9l?width=1141&height=947&cropmode=none
time: 2
---

I believe that being a programmer is not difficult, and everyone can do that. However, it does require some good habits along the journey of becoming a good coder. In this post, I share my knowledge on habits that I have as a coder.

---

## 1. Self-learning
Self-learning is a critical habit of becoming a good programmer. With the advantage of the Internet, there are lots of existing online materials that you can read or watch. However, it's difficult to proactively search for  information if you don't have a self-learning habit. As a programmer, I self-learn and keep updating my knowledge every day from the open-source website like Github or Q&A platforms like Quora or StackOverflow. If you are a beginner who needs the direction for your studying, online learning platforms like Udemy or Coursera are ones for your choices. Proactively searching for materials or registering online courses is the first step of self-learning. The second step is setting a goal for your learning journey to keep your motivation. Once you repeat these two steps, you start cultivating your self-learning habit.

## 2. Keep questioning
Making questions and finding the answer for those is the important process of any learning habits. As a coder, I tend to follow this process when learning new things or solving problems. For me, the number of questions doesn't matter but things that I've learned or solved by asking those questions. Without this habit, you might feel the learning process becoming a bit more difficult because there are lots of things to remember. Likewise, by practising this habit, you empower your brain to be more proactive in the learning process.

## 3. Perseverance
Perseverance is also another good habit to become a coder. Depending on the difficulty of problems that need to be solved during the learning process, I need to spend hours or even days on solving them. Without perseverance, it's easy for me to give up on problems that require much efforts and time. Thus, by practising this habit, I feel calm when solving problems because I believe that I will eventually solve it or at least learn new things by doing so. This also keeps my motivation during the learning process to improve my knowledge.
