---
title: Internet of Things and Industry 4.0 - Keynotes from Swiburne Engineering Student's Society event
summary: Living in the digital world where there are billions of devices generating trillions of data daily, we should have a brief understanding of Internet of Things and Industry 4.0.
date: 05 Oct 2019
category: technology
tag: Internet of Things
keywords: technology, internet of things, iot, industry 4.0, digital world, social event
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4mB03_vT-NuMrPY9cnUikAH2Rd4OnBTv3vgqg4YV-p6cvHw9kcdrg_od7H8XtgQmxd4bpW8BHXdCxw0R-MceXlx4GxBplb3QPluX0PlyakcnxrBT1A66RbyQLT9f7ecpzniZPqpHIr-FCeAVHzUdXq59kCyVCcnRYY8dGZzHmSyOw5iOfACikc9JfvHusd8sf7?width=1417&height=1034&cropmode=none
time: 1
---

Living in the digital world where there are billions of devices generating trillions of data daily, we should have a brief understanding of the Internet of Things (IoT) and Industry 4.0. Last week, I attended the social event about IoT which was held by Swinburne Engineering Student's Society (SESS) club to expand my network and gain more knowledge about this are. In this post, I share what I've learned from the event.

---

## 1. Introduction to the SESS club
[Swinburne Engineering Student’s Society](https://www.facebook.com/swin.sess/) (SESS) club was founded in 2019. This is an engineering club that aims to connect and support engineering students from different majors at Swinburne University. With that mission, they have been holding many networking events and workshops related to different fields in the engineering industry. If you are interested in networking events or workshops for engineering students at Swinburne University, I highly recommend you to have a look at [their Facebook events page](https://www.facebook.com/swin.sess/events/).

## 2. Keynotes
__The importance of data in Industry 4.0__
If gasoline is an important fuel to operate the movement of engines in Industry 2.0, data is an important material to control the whole ecosystem in Industry 4.0. For example, one of the most famous fields in Industry 4.0 is autonomous robots which require tons of training data to improve the accuracy in real-world environments. The cloud and cybersecurity are related to data transmission and data privacy.

__The integration of IoT with artificial intelligence (AI)__
While AI models require lots of training data to improve the robustness in their prediction, IoT contributes to this area as the data generator. On the other hand, AI models can be used to improve the data flow or address issues in the IoT area. The integration of these two technologies supports the improvement of each other and importantly create values to human life.

> We are living in the industry where technologies and innovation make human life better.

This is one of the most valuable lessons I learned from the event.

__Setting a goal is important before designing the solution__
Before designing the solution for a particular problem, we should focus on setting goals for it instead of technologies. This is because technologies are updated daily. Furthermore, by setting goals, we are addressing the "Why" question for that problem. As Simon Sinek wrote in his "Start With Why" book, the "Why" question directs us to other types of question and helps us understand more about the problem itself.
