---
title: Good habits when working in the tech industry
summary: Aside from coding, there are also other habits contributing to the building blocks which aims to become technologists. Without these habits, it may difficult to keep your movitation in the tech industry.
date: 21 Apr 2019
category: technology
tag: Habits
keywords: technology, habits, success, industry
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4m7vFwDFGMKBGFZffE-jS7l-5SNV7ed1a0bjQPduEcFkWV-nF-Jot85KzVo9vDIZJ2wIuyuPne-SVdvYSiZfq9guGqNhWXlYih0wlrgjPKR8uAgF-cBA1Qrd8zpBEONXijAdh9yWmXhogIKWYD9GNhz9BUktGiEiK1-Ff40MpIWCASfNTBJiCQx_ljSp9-xHXL?width=1280&height=809&cropmode=none
time: 1
---

The tech industry is becoming popular. Companies are hiring technologists to build products improving their performance in the market. Apart from coding, there are various other habits contributing to the building blocks on the journey of becoming a technologist. Without these habits, it may difficult to keep your movitation when working or studying in this industry. In this post, I share my knowledge about habits that you should have as a technologist.

---

## 1. Be patient and keep learning
If you're learning how to code or plan to become a developer, you should be patient because the result may not come immediately after a week, a month or even a year. However, at some point or period of your life, you'll gain the great result from what you're learning or planning to learn. Learning without seeing what you've expected such as a great product or a job might lessen your motivation gradually. However, Jack Ma said we couldn't have a beautiful day without experiencing all the tough days. If you believe in what you're learning will help you at least achieve something in the future, you should keep learning it. By doing that, you're building a door for opportunities on the journey of your future achievement. 

## 2. Be willing to listen feedbacks from others
In the tech industry, it’s good if you’re able to learn independently, but it will be better if you’re able to learn and listen to the feedback from your colleagues. Either positive or negative feedbacks help you learn at least one thing that contributes to your development. If they keep giving you feedback, it does mean that they want you to better. Thus, you should respect those people who always give you feedbacks while working or studying. Bill Gates said, "We all need people who will give us feedback. That's how we improve".

## 3. Learn from your mistakes
In the tech industry, it doesn't matter how many mistakes you make but the important thing is what you've learned from those. Thus, don't be afraid of making mistakes because that's how you learn and improve yourself. Furthermore, sharing your mistakes with lessons with your colleagues is a great thing to do for improving your team's productivity and build up your network. Learning from your mistakes also empower your innovation in solving problems - that's when you start connecting dot points from your experience. Sometimes, the learning process might hurt your way of thinking but there is no gain without pain.
