---
title: Everyone can become a coder
summary: Coding isn't difficult as you might think. Everyone can do that, and it requires efforts and time to be a good programmer. In this post, I share tips for becoming a coder.
date: 22 Sep 2018
category: technology
tag: Programming
keywords: technology, coding, coder, programming, learning, beginner
cover: 22092018_coding.png
time: 2
---

Coding isn't difficult as you might think. Everyone can do that, and it requires efforts and time to be a good programmer. In this post, I share my thoughts on the journey of becoming a programmer for inspiring you to start your own one.

---

## 1. The beginning of the coding journey
When hearing about coding, as the freshman, you might think it's difficult to become a good programmer. However, the more time and efforts you spend on practising how to code, the better you will be good at it. Like when you're studying a new foreign language, learning how to code is trying to communicate with the computer via programming languages. In the beginning, you need to spend lots of time to understand basic concepts by watching videos and reading materials. With the advantage of the Internet, you can search for resources that you want to learn. Besides, if you are a person who needs the direction before starting, you should have a look at online learning courses from Udemy, Coursera, LinkedIn Learning, etc. These online learning platforms developed good curriculum for many programming courses. Normally, each course requires you to spend at least 21.5 hours for learning. However, it still depends on your learning ability.

On the other hand, the hardest part of programming is how you apply what you've learned into creating things that you'd like to have. If you learn how to code, you might only know how to do that with the direction or requirements. However, if you learn how to building things with programming to address issues or bring joy to others, you will know how to apply what you've learned into real-life applications. This is difficult but it keeps your motivation during the journey. Like coding, if I want to learn something new, I first ask myself whether or not I can use it for building what I want.

## 2. Get started with user-friendly technologies
Python is the most user-friendly programming language that you should get started with. It offers the friendly-English scripting type which is similar to the way you communicate with each other by using English. In addition, it doesn't have many programming syntaxes that you need to remember. Once you are familiar with Python, switching to another programming language is not a big deal but it still requires some efforts for adapting.

If you're interested in web development, you should learn the basic package of HTML, CSS and JavaScript. While HTML and CSS are used for styling your website, JavaScript is used for operating different things in the website. HTML and CSS might be not a bit deal but JavaScript's learning curve is a bit steeper than Python because of its syntaxes and programming principles. Besides, there are lots of free online tutorials on YouTube for this web development package that you should check them out.

