---
title: Introduction to Data Science
summary: In the digital area, there are lots of data generated from devices daily. Companies are recruiting data experts to transform data into profits. In this post, I share a brief introduction to Data Science.
date: 23 Feb 2020
category: technology
tag: Data Science
keywords: technology, data science, data engineering, data analyst, skills, experience
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4mcJs8tXlt--lKOwnADoZh3YmMR9_fIcYIFg8f3OIPsoOS8e03LCynLDxkvenNHqQDJ6dktKRsqqEcz4CLDIy3iGRsRdNMh0MPbuph_m7JRX71Qf8w4era8IUuSLjlmZkWwBpC3PFQ3U4O_ELO0coW0-qH_yINrWdMOnoS0_lbSUUmInMs0-ypQuKoMEdkj-FN?width=1235&height=858&cropmode=none
time: 2
---

We're living in the digital world where data is generated from billions of devices daily. In addition, companies are recruiting data experts to transform data into profits. Therefore, it's important to have a brief understanding of different roles in the data sector. In this post, I share a brief introduction to data science and other roles.

---

## 1. Data scientist, data analyst or data engineer?
These are three popular roles in the data sector with different specialisation. However, at the beginning of the journey in this section, people tend to be confused about them. Thus, this section helps you understand more about these roles.

* __Data Analysts__ are those who mainly focus on analysing data and generating business insights. To do that, they need to know how to access collected data and then transform it into insights based on business requirements. The role requires to have a solid understanding of statistical analysis, business analysis and data visualisation. In addition, communication skill is extremely important because you need to present data stories to stakeholders or executives of the company.
* __Data Scientits__ are those who mainly focus on experimenting models for addressing problem domains in the company by using existing data or hand-crafted one. The role requires to have a solid understanding of machine learning techniques, data transformation and model evaluation.
* __Data Engineers__ are those who mainly focus on exploring raw data from different resources, building the data infrastructure and operating the data flow. This role requires to have 60-70% expertise in software engineering and the rest in data analysis. While the other two roles focus on analysing the data, frequently asked questions of this role are "How to boost the performance of the data flow?" or "How to build the infrastructure that can store and handle a large amount of data?".

## 2. Important Skills

__Soft skills:__

* Communication is important because you'll need to present your analysis or findings to stakeholders or your colleagues every day. It's not the communication between technical people but also between technical and non-technical ones.
* Collaboration is important because you'll work with people from different roles in a team. It's important to be open-minded and share knowledge to boost the quality of work.
* Creativity and curiosity help you learn more about what other team members are doing and tell good data stories which benefit a company the most.
* Patience is important because you'll need to do lots of experiments to generate the best result. There are pretty rare cases that you'll get what you want at the first trial. Thus, being patient helps you focus on your tasks and encourage your "never-give-up" spirit.

__Technical skills:__

* Statistical analysis with various algorithms helps you pick the right tools or models in order to transform your data into business insights.
* Research thinking requires you to read lots of materials for updating your knowledge. This helps you find out the critical thing for addressing a particular problem.
* Programming helps you collecting data and applying built models to it. In addition, without programming skill, it might be difficult to experiment with new models or boost the performance of the data infrastructures when automation is the key to transform business in the digital world.
* Technical writing is important because you'll need to report your findings daily to either non-technical people or technical ones. Thus, writing a clear technical report requires efforts and time at the beginning of the journey.

