---
title: Question and Answer platforms
summary: Searching information is the Q&A process of learning which requires efforts and time. Knowing the suitable Q&A platform for a particular information boosts your productivity.
date: 23 Mar 2019
category: technology
tag: Tools
keywords: technology, tools, Q&A, learning, platforms
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4my8ptPosH08MvLhqcwMrGLgAS18NR43RYCttsGJhx_GLXovM3UX3iNG_rE_2F0NWnOtzNG_0N99AqggQsfZ-y2mvAFnqCF-OIswMztH4Dap7g2lUuBruT6JXQMRzMtrwjLOoc7CXy05bn7N6gLV9pOrBuhw1u3YFlKt0JezPR2lziF-hfaeKnlg0Wt1fQEjFM?width=1181&height=595&cropmode=none
time: 1
---

Leveraging the power of the Internet, we can search information as quick as possible for solving problems. Importantly, knowing the suitable Q&A platform for a parituclar information boosts your productivity. In this pose, I share platforms that I've been using and how I tend to use them for the self-learning process.

---

## 1. StackOverflow
When hearing StackOverflow, you might think of something related to computer science like coding, architectures, etc. However, for your information, one branch of StackOverflow is StackExchange, which is a Q&A platform for various topics. Since I'm studying the computer science degree, I tend to use StackOverflow for finding the answer to my questions when studying or working. The platform offers various ways of searching such as text search, tag search or related-topics search. I tend to use text search first and then apply tags for specific details. By using the platform, I can solve many problems within a short amount of time.

## 2. Quora
If you find StackOverflow or StackExchange is a bit technical, Quora will be another platform that you can give it a try. The platform has many types of question and is a bit less technical than StackOverflow. Due to the culture of the platform, the answer for a particular question is a bit long but informative and professional. I tend to use Quora for not only searching the information for non-technical questions but also learning how each question got answered clearly and professionally. This helps me improve my communication skill when answering others' questions.

## 3. YouTube
YouTube is not only the entertainment platform but also the Q&A one where people share tutorial videos that help you address your questions when studying or working. If you find it difficult in reading from the other two platforms, YouTube will be the place that you can give it a try. When I find difficult in understanding concepts by text from StackOverflow or Quora, I tend to search keywords in YouTube for finding related tutorials with a clear explanation. Sometimes, a 5-10 minutes tutorial video is worth 5-10 pages of text. However, those videos might not be really specific about your searching domain, they just show you intuitions behind that. Thus, if you're  interested to learn more after watching a video, it's better to find other reading materials.

