---
title: Collaboration tools
summary: Teamwork is the key to bringing profits to businesses or individuals. In the digital world, collaboration tools or software boost productivity for many activities when working as a team. 
date: 31 Mar 2019
category: technology
tag: Tools
keywords: technology, tools, productivity, collaboration, teamwork, team
cover: https://dsm01pap002files.storage.live.com/y4mPPIcz6k2iLgW9TIPrPGrDZmjDmqZV054qzuZhCU4TF7sskX53UnTJY3Fy0KC1olI9JKqgUQEk3st3LlQ-JKliYeMRf5rrsEH23NNjOLRdmb4MJAHk6bAdsJ0fR4zt9CMgJMMFOgoKu20cTDgvhz0Xw_3waNkpA2A82YicZzaIa6pcj700-eWwQKBI00viD8v?width=824&height=405&cropmode=none
time: 1
---

Teamwork is the key to bringing profits to businesses or individuals. In the digital world, collaboration tools or software like virtual meetings, note-taking apps, sharable documenting apps and others boost productivity for many activities when working as a team. In this post, I share my knowledge about collaboration tools and how I tend to use it for my daily studying and working activities.

---

## 1. Slack - A communication tool
Slack is the free team collaboration tool for communication which helps me create a workspace for each project where I and my team can communicate with each other via messages. With Slack, you can create channels for a specific topic and ask individuals to join those channels. Aside from that, there are many integrated apps on Slack such as Google Drive, Dropbox, Google Calendar and others for you to schedule meetings or share documents. Everything is operated within one platform; and hence, Slack is convenient and boosts your team's productivity.

## 2. Trello - A task-tracking tool
Trello is mostly used for operating and tracking tasks for each project with a project board and task cards. Here, you can create a checklist or the duration for each task, assign team member into an individual task, share documents and comment on others' tasks. I tend to use Trello for sketching my study plan as well as the workflow of my working projects. By doing that, I can easily manage my tasks, avoid the overloaded period and importantly reduce stress while working and studying. Importantly, you can install other apps such as Google Drive, Dropbox, Toggl, Github and others in Trello for boosting your productivity while working as a team.

## 3. Toggl - A time-tracking tool
Toggl is a time-tracking tool which tracks time for tasks you or your team have done while working individually or together. By knowing how much time is spent on a specific task or feature, you can find out reasons for that to boost productivity for future tasks. I tend to use this tool to track my time when studying or working to analyse my capability for self-development. The app offers the analytic dashboard showing insights about time that I or my team was spending on tasks. Those insights contribute to the improvement of teamwork for the future run.